Integration Guide
-----------------

The `GiniSDK` instance provides all managers which are provided by the Gini iOS SDK. It should be 
singleton-like during your application's lifetime. By saying singleton-like we mean
that you somehow manage to create one instance at application start and get exactly this instance whenever you need to 
do something with the Gini iOS SDK (instead of creating everytime a new instance at the places where you need to
interact with the SDK).

Our recommended way to achieve this is by binding the sdk instance to your application's AppDelegate as a property.
First of all, include the Gini iOS SDK in your AppDelegate header file and declare the property on the App Delegate:

    #include <Gini-iOS-SDK/GiniSDK.h>
    
    
    @interface AppDelegate
    
    @property GiniSDK *giniSDK;
    
    @property (strong, nonatomic) UIWindow *window;
    
    @end

And then, in the implementation (.m) file, create the instance on application start by using the 
`application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:` delegate method:

    - (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:(NSDictionary *)launchOptions
    {
        _giniSDK = [[GINISDKBuilder clientFlowWithClientID:@"your-app-id" urlScheme:@"your-app-scheme"] build];
        
        return YES;
    }

(Of course you must replace both arguments with your actual values).

Whenever you need the Gini SDK, for example in a view controller, you can now access your AppDelegate and get the
`GiniSDK` instance:

    GiniSDK *sdk = ((AppDelegate *)[[UIApplication sharedApplication] delegate]).giniSDK;


Implementing the OAuth authorization
------------------------------------

All requests to the Gini API require an authorized Gini user. Gini uses OAuth 2.0 for authorization, as
[described in the documentation](http://developer.gini.net/gini-api/html/guides/oauth2.html).

Gini currently supports two OAuth 2.0 authorization flows which are both implemented and available in the Gini iOS SDK:

- Client-Side Flow
- Server-Side Flow

Both flows have in common that you get an access token from Gini and your app (respectively the Gini iOS SDK) uses that
access token for authorisation. And in both flows the user is redirected to the web browser on his device where he logs
into his Gini account. After a successful login the user is automatically redirected back to you app. Therefore your app
must always implement a custom URL scheme, as described in the section "Implementing the custom URL scheme" below.

Furthermore, the Gini SDK provides anonymous user accounts. This flow doesn't require any authorization by the user.

Client-Side Flow
================

- The user logs in into his Gini Account in the web browser
- The Gini User Center (in the browser) then redirects the user back into your app by redirecting to a custom URL scheme
  with an access token, e.g. 
  `your-app://gini-authentication-finished#access_token=760822cb-2dec-4275-8da8-fa8f5680e8d4&token_type=bearer&expires_in=1391519957867&scope=read,write&state=uiaeo`.
- Your app then has the access token and the Gini iOS SDK uses this access token for requests to the Gini API.
- As long as the user actively requests the Gini API, his access token is valid.
- As soon as the user is inactive for too long, he has to log-in again.

This flow has the advantage that neither the access token nor any app-specific secret ("client secret") are stored
on the device thus cannot be extracted and abused.

Server-Side Flow
================

- The user logs in into his Gini Account in the web browser
- The Gini User Center (in the browser) then redirects the user back into your app by redirecting to a custom URL scheme
  with a code, e.g. `your-app://gini-authentication?code=117587e6-4ea5-49ce-a90b-a66d232dfa26&state=uiaeo`.
- Your app has a so called client secret and does another request (but inside the app, not inside the browser) to the 
  Gini authorisation server where the given code in combination with the client secret is exchanged for an access token
  and a refresh token.
- Both the access token and refresh token are stored in the keychain on the device.
- Your app then has the access token and the Gini iOS SDK uses this access token for requests to the Gini API.
- When the access token has expired, your app can exchange the previously received refresh token for a new access token. 

Basically this means that your user has to log in only for the first time and then your app can always get a valid token
and the user never needs to log in again. This sounds a lot more convenient than the client flow at first, but has the
huge disadvantage that the client secret is stored on the device. The client secret could be extracted from your app 
and used abusive. Please make sure that you 
[understand the implications of this decision](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1934187/oauth-secrets-in-mobile-apps).


Implementing your chosen flow
=============================

The Gini iOS SDK completely handles the authorisation flow for your application. The factory method you use to create 
the `GINISDKBuilder` instance which then creates the `GiniSDK` instance will decide which flow is used:

    // Factory method to create a SDK builder instance that uses the client-side flow:
    _giniSDK = [[GINISDKBuilder clientFlowWithClientID:@"your-client-id" urlScheme:@"your-app-scheme"] build];
    
    
    // Factory method to create a SDK instance that uses the server-side flow:
    _giniSDK = [[GiniSDKBuilder serverFlowWithClientID:@"your-app-id" clientSecret:@"your-apps-client-secret" urlScheme:@"your-app-scheme"] build];


    // Factory method to hide the OAuth authorisation by using anonymous accounts
    _giniSDK = [[GiniSDKBuilder anonymousUserWithClientID:@"your-app-id" clientSecret:@"your-apps-client-secret" userEmailDomain:@"your-domain.com"] build];


No matter which of both flows you are using, your app needs to implement a custom URL scheme. 


Implementing the custom URL scheme
----------------------------------

As described above, your app needs to react on a custom URL scheme when you don't use anonymous user accounts because
the Gini User Center redirects the user back in the app by redirecting to a URL with the custom url scheme. Otherwise
you must handle user authorisation and getting the access tokens yourself by implementing your custom session manager.
An explanation how to do such adaptions can be found in the [adaption programming guide](4.%20Adapting%20the%20SDK%20to%20you%20needs.html).

Therefore, you need to provide a redirect_uri when registering you app with Gini. The
redirect_uri should be `your-app-scheme://gini-authorization-finished` (where "your-app-scheme"
is replaced with your actual custom URL scheme).

In your app, register your custom URL scheme together with an abstract name of the URL scheme (reverse DNS-style of the 
identifier), by adding the information to your app's `*-Info.plist` file. Please refer to the 
[section "Implementing Custom URL Schemes" in the Apple Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/iPhone/Conceptual/iPhoneOSProgrammingGuide/AdvancedAppTricks/AdvancedAppTricks.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40007072-CH7-SW50) 
for details.

	<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
	<array>
		<dict>
			<key>CFBundleURLName</key>
			<string>YOUR_IDENTIFIER</string>
			<key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
			<array>
				<string>YOUR_APP_URL_SCHEME</string>
			</array>
		</dict>
	</array>


Your app needs to repond on the app delegate to the incoming URL. Do this by implementing the following delegate method
in the implementation (.m) file of your AppDelegate:

    - (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application openURL:(NSURL *)url sourceApplication:(NSString *)sourceApplication annotation:(id)annotation
    {
        return [_giniSDK.sessionManager handleURL:url];
    }

Sandbox Access
==============

Please notice that Gini provides two environments of the Gini API, which are isolated and available via different
end points:

    - Production (https://api.gini.net and https://user.gini.net)
    - Sandbox (https://api-sandbox.gini.net and https://user-sandbox.gini.net).

You can't use user accounts for the production environment in the sandbox environment and vice versa.

To use the sandbox environment, you must call the GINISDKBuilder's `useSandbox` method:

    // Creates an SDK instance which uses the client flow authorization and the production environment
    GINISDKBuilder *[GINISDKBuilder clientFlowWithClientID:@"your-app-id" urlScheme:@"your-app-scheme"];
    [builder useSandbox];
    GiniSDK *sdk = [builder build];


Usually, when you try out the Gini iOS SDK, you only get an account for the sandbox environment, so you have to adapt
your code and create a sandbox instance of the Gini SDK.
