Adapting the Gini iOS SDK
-------------------------

The Gini iOS SDK tries to be as slim as possible, thus it only ships the most common configurations for using the Gini
technology inside an app. Nevertheless the Gini iOS SDK has some powerful abstractions and mechanisms so it is fully
flexible and you can easily adapt the SDK to your needs. Especially the used dependency injection system makes it 
possible to easily change and adapt the SDK without the need to rewrite everything or the chance to introduce subtle
bugs.

Before you start adapting the SDK, make sure that you study the information on the SDK's architecture.

The injector
------------

The Gini iOS SDK uses dependency injection (sometimes also known as Inversion of Control) to manage the dependencies
between the different managers and other classes. Every class that has a dependency on some other class gets the needed
instance passed-in in its initializer.

The `GiniSDK` instance provides all managers which are shipped with the SDK by providing instances of the managers as
properties. Those instances are created when the property is accessed the first time via the so called injector, which
is an instance of the `GINIInjector` class.

Every instance that can be created by the injector is actually created via a factory. A factory can be any method or class
method. In the Gini iOS SDK the factory is usually a class method of the class that should be instantiated (which is a
common pattern for Objective-C programming, e.g. `[NSURL URLWithString:@"..."]`.

When the injector is asked to create an instance, it looks up the instance's dependencies, creates those dependencies
if needed by calling the corresponding factory methods and then calls the needed classes' factory method and passes-in
the needed dependencies.

The injector identifies each instance it can create with the so called key. Any arbitrary object can be a key, but it
should be somehow connected to the object which is created. In the Gini iOS SDK, objects that are designated to be
replaced by custom implementations are identified with protocols and the replacing classes must conform to that protocol.

At the moment, there are two classes that are designated to be replaced by custom implementations:

- The `GINISessionManager` (identified by the `<GINISessionManager>` protocol): Responsible for session management. Its
  main task is to provide a valid access token via its `getSession` method.
- The `GINICredentialsStore` (identified by the `<GINICredentialsStore>` protocol): Responsible for storing the tokens
  when the server-side flow is used.


Registering your own implementation
-----------------------------------

We assume that you want to replace the session manager because you want to handle the OAuth authorization on your
server and not via Gini iOS SDK. Your server somehow gets valid access tokens for the Gini API.

Because of that you implement the following class:

    #import <Gini-iOS-SDK/GiniSDK.h>
    
    @interface MySessionManager : NSObject <GINISessionManager>
    
    + (instancetype)sessionManager;
    
    @end
    
    
    @implementation MySessionManager
    
    /** Factory to create a new `MySessionManager`. The injector uses this class */
    + (instancetype)sessionManager{
        return [[MySessionManager alloc] init];
    }
    
    /** Method that does something to log in the user */
    - (BFTask *)logIn {
        BFTaskCompletionSource *completionSource = [BFTaskCompletionSource completionSource];
        
        // Do something that actually logs in the user...
        
        return completionSource.task;
    }
   
    /** Method that does an HTTP request to your server and then gets a valid access token. */
    - (BFTask *)getSession {
        BFTaskCompletionSource *completionSource = [BFTaskCompletionSource completionSource];
        
        // Do something that actually gets the session from your server and creates a new `GINISession` object...
        
        return completionSource.task;
    }
    @end


Then register the factory at the injector, so the injector uses your implementation instead of the built-in implementation.
Please notice that this must be done before(!) you create the SDK instance via the builder's `build` method.

    // Create the "normal" builder instance you use for configuring the SDK.
    GINISDKBuilder *builder = [GINISDKBuilder clientFlow:@"your-app-scheme" clientID:@"your-app-id"];
    // And then register your implementation in the injector.
    [builder.injector setSingletonFactory:@selector(sessionManager)
                                       on:[MyClass class]
                                   forKey:@protocol(GINISessionManager)
                         withDependencies:nil];
    // And then create the SDK instance
    _giniSDK = [builder build];


That's all you need to do! The whole SDK now uses your session implementation instead of the built-in session implemenation.
